Colour Basic Rules

Players: 2 +

Game Length: 20 - 60 Minutes 

Basic Premise: Colour is based around the most common building blocks of any card game. In effect they are playing the meta itself, each game is a mini-meta. You spend each turn building your foundation and attempting to tear down your opponents. There are elements that users might find familiar with games like Puzzle Quest, this is especially in regards to the Role cards.

Each of the five colors represent an aspect of the game:

Red = How much damage is dealt
Green = How many resources are generated
White = How much damage is prevented
Blue = how many cards are drawn
Black = How many cards you can keep in your hand

Victory Conditions : Reduce your opponent to 0 life or 0 resources.

Setup: The Players choose a Role card to represent them. They then construct a 30 card deck with no more than 2 of any one card that hopefully plays to the strength and/or shores up weaknesses found on their chosen Role card. Players Must have a reliable way of keeping track of each color pool (usually five 20 sided dice, one of each color). 

	- 1 Role card
	- 30 Card deck
	- 5 d20s

Start of Game:  Each player shuffles their 30 card deck and offers the opponent the opportunity to cut the deck. Each Player then rolls dice, the player with the highest total plays first.  The players then simultaneously reveal their role cards and set their color pools to the totals designated on the role cards. The player who won the roll now starts their turn.

Turn Order:

Resource (Charge/Generate/Enhancement etc) Step
Draw Step
Play Step
Resolution Step
Discard Step



In Depth:

Resource Step:

At the start of a Players turn they choose one of their five color pools and increase it by 1.

Draw Step:

The active player draws cards equal to their Blue color pool.

Play Step:

The active player may choose to activate an ability on their Role card; paying any associated costs and then resolving the effects. The player may then play cards with color slots equal to or less than in total to their Green color pool. Set the played cards face up in front of you. 

Resolution Step:

Tally the color totals of each card played by the active player this turn. The active player then adds the current total of their Red color pool towards one of these totals (even if the current total is 0). Subtract the defending players White color pool total from a single resolving color pool. Devide each pool in half round down. The defending player reduces each of their color pools by this number. Finally the active player increases their color pools based on the total of the played cards.

Discard Step:

The active player discards cards until they have cards in hand equal to their Black color pool total. The next player now begins their turn.